Docs 9631 documentation oidc multiple group mappings (#104)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/map-users-roles-ldap-task.adoc

  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Org_Admin_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Exchange_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>
----
. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.
. Click *Identity Providers*.
. From *Identity Providers*, select OIDC.
. Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute* field matches the name of the SAML attribute that contains the group names
. In the above example of a SAML assertion, the *Group Attribute* is "Groups":
=== Map SAML Users to Roles

. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.
. Click *Roles*.
. Click *Add Role* to create a role for each group of users in your organization.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role* to add the role.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role:
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
. Enter the group to which you want to map.
. Click *Set names*.
+
To map more than one attribute name to the selected role, click *Add More* and add another attribute.

. Repeat this process for each role that you want to map to an external group.

== Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On using OpenID Connect (OIDC)

> External identity providers format group claims in different ways.

Author: ```suggestion
External identity providers format groups claims in different ways.
```

> Anypoint Platform checks the `User Info` response for the groups claim. If it is not found, it then checks the `Token` response.

Author: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform checks the `UserInfo` response for the groups claim. If it is not found, it then checks the `Token` response.
```

> You can use any identity providers that return group claims on the `User Info` or `Token` reponses.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use any identity providers that return groups claims on the `UserInfo` or `Token` response.
```

=== Map OIDC Group Users to Roles

> . Obtain a response to the `UserInfo` or `IdToken` endpoints that contains a group claim from your external identity provider.

Author: ```suggestion
. Obtain a response to the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint that contains a groups claim from your external identity provider.
```

. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.
. Click *Identity Providers*.
. From *Identity Providers*, select OIDC.

> . If your IdP requires an additional OIDC scope to authorize access to groups claims, it can be specified in the *Group Scope* field.

Author: ```suggestion
. If your IdP requires an additional OIDC scope to authorize access to groups claims, enter it in the *Group Scope* field.
```

> . Verify that the JSONata query in the *Group Attribute JSONata Expression* yields an array of group names from either the User Info or Token response

Author: ```suggestion
. Verify that the JSONata query in the *Group Attribute JSONata Expression* yields an array of group names from either the `UserInfo` or `Token` response.
```

. Click *Roles*.
. Click *Add Role* to create a role for each group of users in your organization.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role* to add the role.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role:
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
. Enter the group to which you want to map.
. Click *Set names*.
+
To map more than one attribute name to the selected role, click *Add More* and add another attribute.

=== Examples of OIDC Group Expressions

> The following examples show responses from the `User Info` or `Token` endpoints that contain group claims from different external identity providers.

Author: ```suggestion
The following examples show responses from the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoints that contain groups claims from different external identity providers.
```

> ==== Okta
> 
> [source,xml

Author: ```suggestion
==== Okta

The following example shows a typical Okta groups claim.

[source,xml]
```

----
{
 ...
  "groups": [
    "Everyone",
    "groupOne"
  ]
}
----

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Given that groups claim, the JSONata expression is `groups`.

```

==== Auth0

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The following example shows a typical Auth0 groups claim.

```

[source,xml]
----
{
  ...
  "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/groups": [
    "MyGroup",
    "groupOne"
  ]
}
----

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Given that groups claim, the JSONata expression is `https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/groups`.

```

==== Salesforce

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The following example shows a typical Salesforce groups claim.

```

[source,xml]
----
{
  ...
  "custom_attributes": {
    "PermissionSets": "groupOne,groupTwo"
  }
}
----

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Given that group claim, the JSONata expression is `$split(custom_attributes.PermissionSets, ',')`.

```

== Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On using SAML

If your organization uses single sign-on and requires its users to obtain permissions from multiple groups, you can configure a group attribute that contains all the groups you want to use. In many cases, you can create an array of groups.

For example, your IDP may provide your groups in the following format:

----
<ns2:Attribute Name="Groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Org_Admin_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>
<ns2:Attribute Name="Groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Exchange_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>
----

To prevent security vulnerabilities, Anypoint Platform requires you to create a single group that encompasses multiple group mappings:

----
<ns2:Attribute Name="Groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Org_Admin_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Exchange_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>
----

> 

Reviewer: if we're feeling bold, this is where we could move the https://docs.mulesoft.com/access-management/verify-saml-info-task page into (which might be for the best since it has a few naming errors)

```suggestion
. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.
. Click *Identity Providers*.
. From *Identity Providers*, select OIDC.
. Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute* field matches the name of the SAML attribute that contains the group names
. In the above example of a SAML assertion, the *Group Attribute* is "Groups":
```

=== Map SAML Users to Roles

. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.
. Click *Roles*.
. Click *Add Role* to create a role for each group of users in your organization.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role* to add the role.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role:
. Click *Set external group mapping*.

> . Enter the your array of SAML groups.

Reviewer: `the your`
And technically instead of entering the whole array, it's one name at a time like oidc
```suggestion
. Enter the group to which you want to map.
```

. Click *Set names*.
+
To map more than one attribute name to the selected role, click *Add More* and add another attribute.

. Repeat this process for each role that you want to map to an external group.

== Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On using OpenID Connect (OIDC)

> External identity providers format group mappings in different ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
External identity providers format group claims in different ways.
```

> Anypoint Platform checks the `UserInfo` endpoint for user information. If no user information is found, it then checks the `IdToken` endpoint.

Reviewer: can we change this to something like

```suggestion
Anypoint Platform checks the `User Info` response for the groups claim. If it is not found, it then checks the `Token` response.
```

I also realized it's probably best to follow the naming convention of `User Info` and `Token` like in the IdP config page

> Okta, Auth0, Salesforce, Google, and Microsoft ADFS return groups that can be used for OIDC group mappings.
> You can use other identity providers if they call the `UserInfo` or `IdToken` endpoints.

Reviewer: I'm not familiar with our customs for mentioning supported platforms, but I'd be good with being less specific 
```suggestion
You can use any identity providers that return group claims on the `User Info` or `Token` reponses.
```

=== Map OIDC Group Users to Roles

> . Obtain a response to the `UserInfo` or `IdToken` endpoints with a group claim from your external identity provider.

Reviewer: maybe 'containing' instead of 'with'?

Author: ```suggestion
. Obtain a response to the `UserInfo` or `IdToken` endpoints that contains a group claim from your external identity provider.
```

. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.

> . Click *External Identity*.

Reviewer: I think this is outdated, should now be Identity Providers

Author: ```suggestion
. Click *Identity Providers*.
```

> . From *Identity Management*, select OIDC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From *Identity Providers*, select OIDC.
```

> . Verify that the value in the *Group Scope* field matches the value in your IDP group expression.

Reviewer: Group scope is a bit trickier in that it depends on the requirements of the IdP and it's an optional field since not all IdPs require it.
It's used when making the request, and is not something that is visible in the response

```suggestion
. If your IdP requires an additional OIDC scope to authorize access to groups claims, it can be specified in the *Group Scope* field.
```

> . Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute JSONata Expression* field matches the value from your JSONata query of your IDP group expression.

Reviewer: I think we need to change this to convey that the JSONata expression is something they need to come up with themselves, not something they can find and copy paste

```suggestion
. Verify that the JSONata query in the *Group Attribute JSONata Expression* yields an array of group names from either the User Info or Token response
```

Reviewer: If it is incorrectly configured and a claim is not found, then the warning is logged in Audit log
do we want to mention that here?

Author: Not if we're modifying audit logs. I don't think most features make notes of that outside of those tables.

. Click *Roles*.
. Click *Add Role* to create a role for each group of users in your organization.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role* to add the role.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role:
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
. Enter the group to which you want to map.
. Click *Set names*.
+
To map more than one attribute name to the selected role, click *Add More* and add another attribute.

=== Examples of OIDC Group Expressions

> The following examples show responses `UserInfo` or `IdToken` endpoints that contain group claims from different external identity providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show responses from the `User Info` or `Token` endpoints that contain group claims from different external identity providers.
```

==== Okta

[source,xml
----
{
 ...
  "groups": [
    "Everyone",
    "groupOne"
  ]
}

> ----

Reviewer: can we add another block that has the example corresponding JSONata expression
this one would be 
`groups`

==== Auth0

[source,xml]
----
{
  ...
  "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/groups": [
    "MyGroup",
    "groupOne"
  ]
}

> ----

Reviewer: this one would be 
`https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/groups`

==== Salesforce

[source,xml]
----
{
  ...

>   "custom_attributes": {
>     "PermissionSets": "[\"groupOne\"]",
>     "myGroups": "myGroup1,myGroup2",

Reviewer: cleaning up my example :) 
```suggestion
  "custom_attributes": {
    "PermissionSets": "groupOne,groupTwo"
```

  }
}

> ----

Reviewer: this one would be 
`$split(custom_attributes.PermissionSets, ',')`

> ==== Google

Reviewer: I think we can remove google since it's the same as Okta and I'm not 100% sure of the format

> ==== Google
> 
> [source,xml]
> ----
> {
>   ...
>   "groups": [
>     "group1",
>     "group2"
>   ],
> }
> ----
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

= Map Single Sign-On Users to Roles
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can map users in a federated organization's group to an Anypoint role. Your Anypoint Platform organization must use an external identity provider, such as PingFederate.

Reviewer 2: We should never use "Anypoint" alone.

Author: ```suggestion
You can map users in a federated organization's group to a role. Your Anypoint Platform organization must use an external identity provider, such as PingFederate.
```

> After you perform this mapping, users in an organization can sign in to Anypoint Platform using the same organizational credentials and access permissions that an organization maintains using SAML, OpenID Connect (OIDC), or LDAP. +

Reviewer 2: Consider...:
"users in an organization" > "those users"?  [referred to in the first sentence]
OR
Something like "After you have mapped them, these users (or users in an...) can...."

Author: ```suggestion
After you have mapped them, users in an organization can sign in to Anypoint Platform using the same organizational credentials and access permissions that an organization maintains using SAML, OpenID Connect (OIDC), or LDAP. +
```

> This ensures security of credentials and maintains organizational roles for accessing privileged information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This helps to ensure secure credentials and to maintain organizational roles for accessing privileged information.
```
Because of Legal issues, we can never say that anything is ensured by our products, so...helps to ensure, per Style Ref.

Anypoint Platform requires different information from your identity provider based on whether you use SAML, OpenID Connect, or LDAP.

> == Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On using SAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On Using SAML
```

> If your organization uses single sign-on and requires its users to obtain permissions from multiple groups, you can configure a group attribute that contains all the groups you want to use. In many cases, you can create an array of groups.

Reviewer 2: I got lost between "requires its users" and "you want to use," so how about...:
```suggestion
If your organization uses single sign-on but also requires you to obtain permissions from multiple groups, you can configure an attribute that contains all of the groups from which you need to obtain individual access permission. In many cases, you can create an array of groups.
```

Reviewer 2: What is "an array of groups" vs. "an attribute" that contains the groups?

Author: Array in this case is used in the context of coding/scripting.

> For example, your IDP may provide your groups in the following format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, assume that your IDP provides your groups in the following format:
```
Edit to avoid the modal verb "may," per Style Reference.

----
<ns2:Attribute Name="Groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Org_Admin_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>
<ns2:Attribute Name="Groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Exchange_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>
----

> To prevent security vulnerabilities, Anypoint Platform requires you to create a single group that encompasses multiple group mappings:

Reviewer 2: So here we have 
"a single group that encompasses multiple group mappings," 
to add to "an array" and "an attribute that contains all of the groups." 
Is there one, best term we can use consistently throughout?

Author: Attribute and array are both more specific than we want in this case. We don't know the state of the groups they get from their IdP, so we can't direct them.

Author: ```suggestion
To prevent security vulnerabilities, Anypoint Platform requires you to create an attribute that encompasses multiple group mappings:
```

----
<ns2:Attribute Name="Groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Org_Admin_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Exchange_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>

> ----

Reviewer 2: Transition to actual steps?

> . In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to *Access Management*.
```
If this is NOT a label, we have an issue, stylewise, because "access management" is not a product. See Term Presentation List.

. Click *Identity Providers*.
. From *Identity Providers*, select OIDC.

> . Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute* field matches the name of the SAML attribute that contains the group names

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute* field matches the name of the SAML attribute that contains the group names.
```

> . In the above example of a SAML assertion, the *Group Attribute* is "Groups":

Reviewer 2: This is not a step, nor should it end with a colon.
Also, the value `Groups` should be in mono, not quotation marks.

Author: ```suggestion

In the above example of a SAML assertion, the *Group Attribute* is `Groups`.
```

=== Map SAML Users to Roles

> 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps even your very technical audience would benefit from a robust transition from title/previous topic to these steps?

. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.
. Click *Roles*.
. Click *Add Role* to create a role for each group of users in your organization.
. Specify a role name and description.

> . Click *Add Role* to add the role.

Reviewer 2: I would omit the obvious:
```suggestion
. Click *Add Role*.
```

> . In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role:

Reviewer 2: Why the colon?
```suggestion
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role.
```

Author: Used to be screenshots. I removed them and forgot. Good catch :)

. Click *Set external group mapping*.

> . Enter the group to which you want to map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Name the group to which you want to map.
```

. Click *Set names*.
+

> To map more than one attribute name to the selected role, click *Add More* and add another attribute.

Reviewer 2: This is a step: a user action. 
Does it follow the previous step, or is it an alternative to the previous step?
Or should it actually precede the previous step?
And is "Click *Set names* a step that ends this repeated process (of more than one) or each process?

> . Repeat this process for each role that you want to map to an external group.

Reviewer 2: Clarify set of steps per above.

> == Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On using OpenID Connect (OIDC)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On Using OpenID Connect (OIDC)
```

External identity providers format groups claims in different ways.
Anypoint Platform checks the `UserInfo` response for the groups claim. If it is not found, it then checks the `Token` response.

You can use any identity providers that return groups claims on the `UserInfo` or `Token` response.

> 

Reviewer 2: ditto re. transition; GLOBAL

=== Map OIDC Group Users to Roles

> . Obtain a response to the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint that contains a groups claim from your external identity provider.

Reviewer 2: Is "...a response to the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint that contains a groups claim..." here the same as "...return groups claims on the `UserInfo` or `Token` response" at the end of the intro text above it?
Are these values endpoints or responses?

Author: Both.

> . In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.

Reviewer 2: ditto prev. question about access management; GLOBAL in this PR (I will stop marking)

Author: ```suggestion
. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to *Access Management*.
```

. Click *Identity Providers*.

> . From *Identity Providers*, select OIDC.

Reviewer 2: Is OIDC here a label?
Should it be "an" OIDC or "an OIDC scope," given the next step?

Author: ```suggestion
. From *Identity Providers*, select *OIDC*.
```

. If your IdP requires an additional OIDC scope to authorize access to groups claims, enter it in the *Group Scope* field.

> . Verify that the JSONata query in the *Group Attribute JSONata Expression* yields an array of group names from either the `UserInfo` or `Token` response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that the JSONata query in *Group Attribute JSONata Expression* yields an array of group names from either the `UserInfo` or `Token` response.
```
...or keep "the" and provide a common noun object after the UI label.

. Click *Roles*.

> . Click *Add Role* to create a role for each group of users in your organization.

Reviewer 2: Clarify: Is this step and the remainder of this task addressing one REPEATED set of steps to create a role for EACH group, or one set of steps that creates a role of ALL of the groups?

. Specify a role name and description.

> . Click *Add Role* to add the role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Add Role*.
```

. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role:
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
. Enter the group to which you want to map.
. Click *Set names*.

> +

Reviewer 2: Ditto prev. edits to same steps above

> To map more than one attribute name to the selected role, click *Add More* and add another attribute.

Reviewer 2: ditto

=== Examples of OIDC Group Expressions

The following examples show responses from the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoints that contain groups claims from different external identity providers.

==== Okta

> The following example shows a typical Okta groups claim.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows a typical Okta groups claim:
```

[source,xml]
----
{
 ...
  "groups": [
    "Everyone",
    "groupOne"
  ]
}
----

Given that groups claim, the JSONata expression is `groups`.

==== Auth0

> The following example shows a typical Auth0 groups claim.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows a typical Auth0 groups claim:
```

[source,xml]
----
{
  ...
  "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/groups": [
    "MyGroup",
    "groupOne"
  ]
}
----

Given that groups claim, the JSONata expression is `https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/groups`.

==== Salesforce

> The following example shows a typical Salesforce groups claim.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows a typical Salesforce groups claim:
```

[source,xml]
----
{
  ...
  "custom_attributes": {
    "PermissionSets": "groupOne,groupTwo"
  }
}
----

> Given that group claim, the JSONata expression is `$split(custom_attributes.PermissionSets, ',')`.

Author: ```suggestion
Given that groups claim, the JSONata expression is `$split(custom_attributes.PermissionSets, ',')`.
```

> == Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On using LDAP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On Using LDAP
```

> You can obtain the information you need to map your LDAP group to a role using a SAML assertion. Note that user management through LDAP is available only for the Private Cloud Edition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can obtain the information you need to map your LDAP group to a role using a SAML assertion. Note that user management through LDAP is available only for Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition.
```

=== Map LDAP Group Users to Roles

> . In Anypoint Platform, navigate to Access Management.

Author: ```suggestion
. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to *Access Management*.
```

. Click *Roles*.
. Click *Add Role* to create a role for each group of users in your organization.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role* to add the role.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role:

> . Click *Set external group mapping*:

Author: ```suggestion
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
```

> . Copy the string from your SAML assertion AttributeValue to the External Group Name, for example:

Reviewer 2: Ditto previous edits to similar text above:
access management
one single set of steps or one repeated single set of step
colons: the final three steps end with colons? Suggest not ending narrative headings/titles with colons.

</ns2:Attribute>
----

To prevent security vulnerabilities, Anypoint Platform requires you to create a single group that encompasses multiple group mappings:

----
<ns2:Attribute Name="Groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Org_Admin_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
  <ns2:AttributeValue>Mule_Exchange_XXX</ns2:AttributeValue>
</ns2:Attribute>
----

In the above example of a SAML assertion, the *Group Attribute* is `Groups`.

=== Map SAML Users to Roles

After you have created an attribute that contains your groups, you can create a role to map to groups of users in your organization. 

. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to *Access Management*.
. Click *Identity Providers*.
. From *Identity Providers*, select SAML.
. Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute* field matches the name of the SAML attribute that contains the group names.
. Click *Roles*.
. Click *Add Role*.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role*.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role.
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
. Name the group to which you want to map.
. Click *Set names*.

> +

Author: ```suggestion
```
